Blinkit-Sales-Dashboard
This Power BI dashboard is designed to conduct a comprehensive analysis of Blinkit's sales performance, customer satisfaction, and inventory distribution. The goal is to identify key business insights and optimization opportunities across different outlets, item types, and customer preferences.

The report uses interactive visualizations to analyze KPIs such as Total Sales, Average Sales, Number of Items Sold, and Average Customer Rating. These insights help Blinkit make data-driven decisions to enhance customer experience and optimize sales strategies across various outlet types, sizes, and locations.

STEPS FOLLOWED
Step 1: Requirement Gathering / Business Understanding
The objective was to evaluate Blinkit's performance by analyzing sales, inventory, and customer satisfaction across different product and outlet dimensions. Key stakeholder requirements were identified, focusing on:

Sales trends by product attributes (fat content, item type)

Outlet-specific performance

Rating-based customer satisfaction analysis

Step 2: Data Walkthrough
The dataset was explored to understand its structure, data types, null values, and relationships. It included fields such as Item Type, Fat Content, Outlet Size, Establishment Year, Sales, and Rating.

Step 3: Data Connection
The dataset (in CSV format) was imported into Power BI Desktop.

Step 4: Data Cleaning / Quality Check
Checked column distribution, quality, and profiles.

Removed or ignored null and duplicate values.

Validated the consistency of categories (e.g., "Low Fat", "Regular").

Ensured rating values were within acceptable bounds (e.g., 0–5 scale).

Step 5: Data Modeling
Relationships were created between fact and dimension tables.

Data types were properly assigned for each field (Date, Numeric, Text).

Created a clean data model for efficient reporting.

Step 6: Data Processing
Aggregated necessary metrics like total sales, average ratings, etc.

Created calculated columns for improved slicing and dicing.

Step 7: DAX Calculations
New measures were created for:

Total Sales = SUM(Sales)
Image

Average Sales = AVERAGE(Sales)
Image

Number of Items = DISTINCTCOUNT(Item_Identifier)
Image

Average Rating = AVERAGE(Rating)
Image

#These were used in card visuals and charts for KPI representation.

Step 8: Dashboard Layouting
A clean and user-friendly single-page layout was adopted with color coding by category (fat content, outlet type, etc.). The theme aligned with Blinkit's brand tone.

Step 9: Chart Development & Formatting
The following visuals were developed:

Donut Chart – Total Sales by Fat Content
➤ Shows contribution of fat content types to overall sales.

➤ Included additional KPIs using tooltip or supplementary visuals.

Bar Chart – Total Sales by Item Type
➤ Highlights best-selling item categories.

➤ Allows quick filtering by item type.

Stacked Column Chart – Fat Content by Outlet
➤ Shows performance comparison across outlets segmented by fat content.

Line Chart – Total Sales by Outlet Establishment Year
➤ Reflects how long-standing outlets perform compared to new ones.

Pie/Donut Chart – Sales by Outlet Size
➤ Assesses the impact of outlet size on sales distribution.

Funnel Map – Sales by Outlet Location
➤ Geographical representation of sales across different regions.

Matrix Card – All KPIs by Outlet Type
➤ Offers a comprehensive snapshot of Total Sales, Average Sales, Item Count, and Ratings grouped by Outlet Type.

Step 10: Dashboard / Report Development
Final visuals were added with proper formatting, labels, legends, and slicers.

Applied slicers for Fat Content, Outlet Size, Item Type, etc.

Title and subtitle text boxes were used for context and readability.

Step 11: Insights Generated
📌 Top Insights:

Fat Content & Sales
Regular fat content items drive higher sales, but low-fat items have slightly higher ratings.
Item Type Performance
Snacks and dairy items dominate in terms of volume and sales.
Outlet-Specific Analysis
Larger outlets with early establishment dates tend to perform better.

Some newer outlets outperform older ones, hinting at location-based success.

Customer Rating Patterns
Outlets offering low-fat alternatives score slightly higher in ratings.

Ratings are not consistent across outlet types, indicating service-level gaps.

Outlet Size & Location
Medium-sized outlets contribute significantly to sales.

Urban outlets have higher average sales than semi-urban ones.

DASHBOARD SCREENSHOT
Image
